One thing that is common to all networks is that we need to have a way
to identify the end nodes. Such identifiers are usually called addresses
the 48-bit address used for Ethernet.no two nodes on a network have the same address.globally unique identifier.
there is some way to identify the input and output ports of each switch.
at least two sensible ways to identify ports: One is to number each port, and the other is to identify the port by the name of the node (switch or host) to which it leads. For now, we use numbering of the ports.


Datagram

To decide how to forward a packet, a switch consults a forwarding table.

Datagram networks have the following characteristics:

A host can send a packet anywhere at any time, since any packet
that turns up at a switch can be immediately forwarded (assuming
a correctly populated forwarding table). 

When a host sends a packet, it has no way of knowing if the
network is capable of delivering it or if the destination host is even
up and running.

A switch or link failure might not have any serious effect on
communication if it is possible to find an alternate route around
the failure and to update the forwarding table accordingly.





Virtual Circuit Switching

The first stage is “connection setup.” 
The second is data transfer.

The semantics of one such entry is as follows: If a packet arrives on the
designated incoming interface and that packet contains the designated
VCI value in its header, then that packet should be sent out the specified
outgoing interface with the specified outgoing VCI value having been first
placed in its header.

the VCI is not a globally significant identifier for the connection; rather, it has significance only on a given link (i.e., it has link-local scope).

When host A no longer wants to send data to host B, it tears down
the connection by sending a teardown message to switch 1.


There are several things to note about virtual circuit switching:
Since host A has to wait for the connection request to reach the far
side of the network and return before it can send its first data
packet, there is at least one round-trip time (RTT) of delay before
data is sent.3

While the connection request contains the full address for host B
(which might be quite large, being a global identifier on the
network), each data packet contains only a small identifier, which
is only unique on one link. Thus, the per-packet overhead caused
by the header is reduced relative to the datagram model.

While the connection request contains the full address for host B
(which might be quite large, being a global identifier on the
network), each data packet contains only a small identifier, which
is only unique on one link. Thus, the per-packet overhead caused
by the header is reduced relative to the datagram model.

While the connection request contains the full address for host B
(which might be quite large, being a global identifier on the
network), each data packet contains only a small identifier, which
is only unique on one link. Thus, the per-packet overhead caused
by the header is reduced relative to the datagram model.



In doing these three things, each node is ensured of having the buffers it
needs to queue the packets that arrive on that circuit. This basic strategy
is usually called hop-by-hop flow control.

Qos implies that switches set aside the resources they need to meet this 
guarantee



If the cell payload size is 48 bytes and you want to send 1 byte, you’ll need to send 47 bytes of padding

Source routing
//

Rotation has an advantage over stripping, however: Host B gets a copy of the complete header, which may help it figure out how to get back to host A.



use small, fixed-length packets


Spanning Tree Algorithm
The main idea of the spanning tree is for the bridges to select the ports
over which they will forward frames.

how this election takes place is described below
The root bridge always forwards frames out over all of its ports. 
Next, each bridge computes the shortest path to the root and notes which of its ports is on this path
Finally, all the bridges connected to a given LAN elect a single designated bridge that will be responsible for forwarding frames toward the root bridge.

Specifically, the configuration messages contain three pieces of infor-
mation:
1. The ID for the bridge that is sending the message
2. The ID for what the sending bridge believes to be the root bridge
3. The distance, measured in hops, from the sending bridge to the
root bridge
